As you slowly creep your way around an toroid hallway your heart almost stops as you hear the dreadful sound of their voices again. You have to catch your breath a moment before panic overtakes you.

Once you compose yourself, you peer around the side leading to the next room carefully.

You see two of the aliens up ahead. They seem to be arguing and are not understanding each other. They talk over each other at times, and rattle their dog arms in response to one another. The sight of it would be almost comical, the shaking flap they are making, if you weren't so sure one of them was the one visiting you yesterday...

While you watch, they then pick up some odd, black, ovular object. They speak into it emphatically. You recognize some of the words they just said as they repeat themselves into it. After that, they examine something on a nearby table, peering at what you assume to be another device of some kind through the oval. They do the salute you have seen before- bending their fingers and arms around their head in such a way as to make a sort of crown around the top of their torso, where a head would be. Your stomach turns a little at the sight of such dizzying anatomy. After they salute each other, they say some more words but softer this time, and less rapid than before. They leave the oval on the table and they walk away.

After waiting enough time so as to be sure they wouldn't be returning, you creep up to the table. You see the black oval on the table, and the device, what looks like a tablet, underneath it. The oval is clear wherever some of their circular text appears on the tablet.

You watch in awe as the oval scrambles the circular writing underneath it over and over again. It first forms a similar style as the aliens' circular writing. Gradually you start to notice some Earth texts, what you recognize as hieroglyphics first, then some kind of cuniform alphabet. Eventually it reaches modern alphabets, and stops at your native script. You see the writing underneath read the following, parts of it being cut off where the oval ends and the tablet continues:

ENGINE EFF-
COOLANT: OPTIM-
NOTES: Recommend-
Name of:

You remember the situation with a start, and look around. No one is nearby, in fact the circular bulkhead doors are closed around you. There is one to the north, the south, and the east. The door leading back the way you came closed shut after you passed through, and you see no obvious way to reopen it.

There is writing above each of the four doorways, again in that circular script. That Universal Translator, as you think to call it, might come in very handy...