You awaken in your cell. You don't know how long it's been, but you lost track after around day 32.

Before then, the last thing you remember is that you were looking up at the stars in the night sky as you are sometimes wont to do. A brief flash of light, that sickly green light, and when you next awoke, you were in this cell. 

Your cell was in its interrogation arrangement when you first awoke, and has returned to that arrangement with unsettling regularity every day since. Each day you knew when they were approaching because the machines hidden in the walls, floor, and ceiling vibrated to life, the very room itself stirring like a monster as you unwittingly entered its maw. The machines barely even made a sound beyond their movement across the room. They would grab you, harsh and deft, like a practiced animal handler. Then you'd be placed on the table as the straps within it locked themselves into place.

You were strapped to that table at least 32 times while they ran their tests and asked you questions in that odd humming-and-clicking language they have. Peered at you with those awful, silver, compound eyes they have, like a fly coated in mercury.

You were strapped to that table at least 32 times while a creature you have come to call the Captain shouted at you. The Captain had its underlings prod at you with their too-long appendages that looked like 9-fingered, skeletal hands ending on arms shaped like a dog's legs.

You have so named The Captain because it stands taller than its suboordinates, and its... skin, or some kind of organic space suit, is adorned with glittering filligree. The others dilligently and proudly listen to the orders it drones and clacks at them.


But today is different. The room is bare when not in interrogation mode, and dimly lit by the same sickly green hue. So neat in fact, that today you managed to notice a slight bend in one of the floor panels. Prying it up with your fingertips took much of your strength, and you think perhaps that these creatures are not as strong as you, else they might have found it first. But no matter, you pry it open, and see a strange board with lights and filligree.

After testing various aspects of the control board, you found, quite by accident, that the removal of some odd crystalline component opened the seamless door in the room. You wince as it irises open, and wait for some kind of commotion...

And nothing happens. You hear no alarms, the light in the room remains unchanged and nothing else lit up. Maybe you accidentally also disabled the alarm somehow, but you don't care anymore, freedom is at hand!

You see the room beyond, it is to the east.